---
title: "Data Game: The Story of Liverpool FC's Analytics Revolution"
categories:
  - Books 
---

This book explores how Liverpool FC harnessed data analytics to transform recruitment, tactics, and performance, rising to become one of the strongest clubs in Europe. 

<ul>
  <li>Every business has some metrics that are important. It’s finding them out which is difficult.</li>
  <li>Any analyst not working in recruitment is literally wasting their time. In terms of impact versus costs, recruitment and squad planning is where you can make the maximum impact.</li>
  <li>Goal difference is the language of football. Players that improve goal difference are the most useful.</li>
  <li>Maximize improvements in performance while minimizing cost.</li>
  <li>I don’t like video, it biases you. Find gems hiding in the data, they won’t always look good in real life.</li>
  <li>Building a squad is a lot like solving a jigsaw puzzle. The players are the pieces, and they are supposed to come together to form one united and harmonious structure. As each piece is added in the correct place over time, the puzzle gets closer to a finished article. But it doesn’t take much to go wrong.</li>
  <li>Reasons a signing may not work:
    <ul>
      <li>Current player is better.</li>
      <li>Not as good as assumed.</li>
      <li>Doesn’t fit playing style.</li>
      <li>Played out of position.</li>
      <li>Manager doesn’t play them.</li>
      <li>Fitness issues.</li>
      <li>Personal issues.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Pitch control integrated tracking data and event data, and gave deeper insights about every action on the pitch. How many defenders did a pass beat? Was it the most advantageous option?</li>
  <li>The primary currency in football is goals. It’s our job to turn every action on the pitch to a goal probability.</li>
  <li>Blocking long distance shots is not worthwhile because it has a low conversion rate. Not all passes are created equal. Find defenders with good accuracy and midfielders who play forward passes.</li>
  <li>Liverpool have been forward-thinking and early adopters of technology into the sport. Jürgen Klopp has made it possible for them to work with data, throw in coaches, nutritionists, mental coaches, etc. This has given Liverpool an edge over other teams.</li>
</ul>